Hey guys, welcome back to the course.
Ok, we're getting more and more comfortable with the concept of
computing and computers, hopefully.
Realistically, you're probably bored to tears
and ready to give a bad review
and I'm really sorry about that, but we really
do have to start with the simple stuff
if you can really stand a chance of understanding
the complicated stuff we get into way later.
Now, this part I think is rather interesting, maybe I'm nerding out,
but maybe you'll also find it interesting.
Either way, try to pay attention.
All right, now, remember the movie
The Matrix with "far out" Keanu Reeves,
fresh out of Bill & Ted's Excellent Adventure?
If you haven't seen it, first of all - who are you?
And second of all, please pause it and go watch that movie.
* What is real? How do you define real? *
In that movie, to summarize the
most important movie of my childhood,
humans figure out that they're actually
living in a simulation of the universe,
a simulation that is essentially pulled
over their eyes to distract themselves
from the fact that they actually live in a
very dirty retro punk universe
full of loin clothes and raves, where robots actually control the world
and use human beings as batteries.
Yes, I know, there are exactly zero plot holes in that story.
Anyway, remember how the Matrix, i.e. the simulation
that is pulled over human beings' eyes,
would always be displayed as
falling green lines of gobbly gook code?
And do you guys remember, in the movie,
how no one could really read it?
They had to use other systems to interpret it for them.
Well, in the movie, that's how computers speak,
and in real life, coincidentally,
it actually works in a very similar way.
No, I'm not saying you are living in a simulation right now.
You are indeed watching this course,
enjoying it, partially wondering
if your coworkers are paid more than you,
probably wondering what you're
going to be doing on the weekend. This is all real.
What I am saying is that computers
have their own language and
that language is called machine code.
And like the Matrix, machine code is really hard
for us humans to not only write,
but read and just have basic comprehension of.
Only the nerdiest of the nerds,
the ultimate nerdos, can actually read and
write this stuff and it is an incredibly impressive
feat that does require admiration.
When a computer wants to tell itself to
do something, or an application, or a
peripheral device like a mouse wants it to tell it to do something,
it does it through variations of machine code.
The simplest version of machine code
that all hardware uses to communicate
is actually just a language that
consists of two things, 0s and 1s.
Essentially beeps and boops.
Want to say "yes" in machine code? Say "beep" or 1.
Want to say "no"? Say "beep boop" or 10.
By stringing together these two digits, 0 and 1,
also known as the binary system,
because it's only two options, your computer
is going to effectively communicate with itself.
But wait, how does this actually work?
If it's just 0s and 1s, how does that turn into a language?
If it's just the hardware that you run
electricity through in your computer,
how does it actually relay this information and receive it?
Well, I'm happy to answer this, because in all
of my 28 years of existence on this planet,
I didn't actually know how this worked until about six months ago
when I probably just stumbled on a Wikipedia page.
Ok, so within that magical box of a computer,
we have motherboards.
Now, motherboards are the big green squares
that everything else is attached to.
Your RAM, your processor, your storage, it's all on there.
That board is actually what transfers these messages.
Now the way that it actually works
is that it alternates between
letting electricity pass through a transistor
and stopping it to communicate.
So letting electricity go through a transistor
is a 1 and stopping it is a 0.
Ok, but then how does it actually communicate
with any effectiveness if it's just on/off, on/off?
Well, it can turn one off and then turn it
back on easily within a millionth of a second.
So in a second, it can send close to
a million of those 0s and 1s.
It's amazing, yes, I know.
We'll come back to this later when we
talk about things like broadband
and that ridiculous internet delivery drone
that Facebook is trying to make,
but the point to keep in mind is that
cable lines and that Facebook drone, well,
they actually transfer information in the exact same way.
On/off, on/off, on/off.
Have you ever heard the joke that
the internet is just a "series of tubes?"
* It's not a big truck *
* It's a series of tubes *
Well, that joke is actually half serious,
because the original computers
were actually giant tubes, and instead of
using electricity to go on and off,
or 0s and 1s, they used air.
Electricity, as it turns out, way more effective.
So why is it hard for humans to read these 0s and 1s?
Well, because basic commands in
machine code are insanely long.
It's like 010100011110011,
and then take that, and then play it out x 100.
And that would just be one command right there.
Now, could you imagine reading
a 100 page book of 0s and 1s,
and trying to follow the main characters and plot
like it were a Harry Potter book?
No, I don't think so.
So that was the problem in the early
days of computers and it leads me
to a very, very important concept in
programming and in technology in general.
Code, whether it be 0s and 1s or a script
written to display a funny gif on your web browser,
all programming code will either be called high level,
mid level, or low level, it's on a spectrum.
Low level code is just code that basic systems
and basic pieces of hardware use.
Now, machinespeak is the ultimate of the low level code.
It actually cannot get any simpler than machinespeak.
Low level code is long, it's inefficient,
and it's actually really hard
for humans to manipulate and understand.
But there is actually an advantage to having
this inefficient, overly verbose type of code,
and that is that it's infinitely customizable.
What do I mean by infinitely customizable?
I mean that because you have to spend
so much time detailing every single part
of the message that you send, it gives you
more control over what you can say.
This will make more sense as we actually start exploring
some of the more high level programming codes,
like web programming.
You could theoretically use low level code
to make something you wanted,
but because of its inefficiency in size
and the lack of one's ability to write in it,
it would take you an enormous amount of time.
Years. Tens of years.
I don't know, something really long.
High level code, one the other hand, is code designed to
progressively fix that problem we just talked about.
Now, as code gets higher level, it gets shorter, easier to read,
but at the same time it actually gets
less descriptive and more restricted.
Let's say the command "Save this file"
in machine code is 01001110111 x 50.
Ok, well, in a high level language
it might just be something like
.
That second one is much simpler,
but you're actually restricted in that
you have to save it in, say, only one spot,
not multiple, not multiple copies.
In that sense, it's very restricted.
As we progressively move from low level code to high level,
we see language that is less complicated,
and this is the code we see associated with things like
software, websites, mobile applications, etc.
These languages are designed to get a lot done
with as few keyboard strokes as you can.
So one thing worth mentioning.
So you might ask, "My computer only
speaks in 0s and 1s. Is that true?"
Well, yes, at the very most basic level, the hardware does this.
When you want to tell your hardware
to do something, it expects 0s and 1s,
because it just eats that stuff all day long.
But does something like your mouse
also communicate in 0s and 1s,
or other periphery devices that are attached
to the motherboard of your computer?
Well, no, it actually talks in a slightly higher level of machine code.
It's not necessarily 0s and 1s, but it's
what I imagine it would look like if you
took your face and you slammed it onto a Vietnamese keyboard.
It looks something like this.
Now, when your mouse sends this face Vietnamese
to your hardware, it has to get translated.
Who out there has ever plugged in
a keyboard into their Windows computer
and had it not work because
you didn't have the right "driver"?
If you don't know what I'm talking about,
then God bless you, because
for the longest time this was probably
the most annoying part of owning a computer.
You could never really find the driver
because it was on a CD, and it was like
a CD you lost, or your sister used to overwrite
and save some rom com movie onto it.
A driver is essentially an interpreter.
It takes the character A with that
eyelash on top of it and then it goes,
"Ah, I recognize this, it's not an A with
an eyelash, it's actually 010011100,"
and it sends that translated version to your system hardware.
So why is it that those two devices
that are so close to each other
speak a different language?
Well, the way I would answer that question
is with a question.
Why do we speak different languages?
Yeah, exactly. Think about that.
We'll actually talk about that later
in the course, so don't worry.
All right, let's recap.
Ever seen The Matrix?
Well, your life is exactly like that,
but instead of trying to save humanity,
as Neo, the perpetually stoned Jesus figure,
* Our work is finished here, as it's just begun *
you're just trying to get your computer
to recognize your mouse.
Your computer communicates at the
most basic level in what's called machinespeak
and which actually consists of just 0s and 1s.
Modern computers actually today communicate more
in this funky Vietnamese-like code
but it actually has built-in interpreters
to translate that on the fly.
It has to translate that because, well, it has to
relay that information back to the hardware
in a language it can understand, which are, again,
those machine code with the 0s and 1s.
There you go, that's it, you just learned
your first programming language.
Next lecture, we're going to talk about
how we, the dumb consumer,
control our mechanical beasts through operating systems.
All right, see you then!